With its initial development in 2008, Blockchain has come a long way from a basic ledger system for cryptocurrencies like bitcoin to the foundational technology for decentralizing existing institutions through every sector, from governance to supply chain. The technology does come with its fair share of concerns; however essential for its operations. The carbon footprint for these operations is due to their run-time, requirements, functions/features, and future scope. As the technology with the primary application is feasible decentralization of institutions, paving the path through sustainability requires a proper understanding of how the operations affect the climate and how they can help it. This paper examines the effects of blockchain operations on sustainability and climate change, reverse engineering algorithms under this technology regarding their carbon footprint, and models for indexing companies using characteristics of blockchain organizations and concepts of carbon credit and their feasibility in the future. Carbon credits or carbon offsets permit an organization to carbon emissions due to their operation. These can be bought or earned through various methods that help reduce carbon through tree plantation, avoidance measures, or exchanges. 

This paper examines the various operations of Blockchain, evaluates and measures carbon footprints through operations, and plausible models of carbon credits. It further aims to build sustainable indexing based on the carbon footprint for organizations for incentives on investments and social image. Finally, outlining the future scope for minimal requirements in developments for better sustainable products and functionalities for improving current standardized operations.